# Policy Statement

This document defines the harassment policy of the League of
Professional System Administrators (LOPSA).

LOPSA is committed to advancing the practice of system administration,
to supporting, recognizing, educating, and encouraging its
practitioners, and to serving the public through education and
outreach on issues related to system administration.

Harassment and discrimination are inherently incompatible with those
core values and goals, and their use by or against a member of this
organization shall not be tolerated.

All members have a right to exist in a professional environment free
from discrimination and harassing conduct, including sexual
harassment. Harassment on the basis of a member’s *race, color, creed,
ancestry, national origin, age, disability, sex, arrest or conviction
record, marital status, sexual orientation, membership in the
military, or the use or nonuse of lawful products away from a
professional setting is expressly prohibited under this policy.*

This policy will be presented to all current members and to all future
members as part of the new member package. All LOPSA Locals chapters
will also be held to these standards, as will all events organized
under the LOPSA banner.

## Definitions

In general, harassment means persistent and unwelcome conduct or
actions on any of the bases emphasized above. Sexual harassment is one
type of harassment and includes unwelcome sexual advances, unwelcome
physical contact of a sexual nature, or unwelcome verbal or physical
conduct of a sexual nature.

*Unwelcome verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature includes, but
is not limited to:*

* The repeated making of unsolicited, inappropriate gestures or
* comments; The display of offensive sexually graphic materials not
* necessary for our work;

*Harassment on any basis (race, sex, age, disability, etc) exists
whenever:*

* Submission to harassing conduct is made, either explicitly or
  implicitly, a term or condition of an individual’s employment.

* Submission to or rejection of such conduct is used as the basis for
  an employment decision affecting an individual.

* The conduct interferes with an employee’s work or creates an
  intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment

## Recognizing Harassment

Harassment may be subtle, manipulative, and is not always evident. It
does not refer to occasional compliments of a socially acceptable
nature. It refers to behavior that is not welcome and is personally
offensive. All forms of gender harassment are covered. Men can be
sexually harassed; men can harass men; women can harass women.

Offenders can be members or non-members, individuals in positions of
leadership, or event organizers. No one has the right to make someone
else feel uncomfortable.

## Some Examples

### Verbal

Jokes, insults and innuendoes (based on race, sex, age, disability,
etc), degrading sexual remarks, referring to someone as a stud, hunk,
or babe; whistling; cat calls; comments on a person’s body or sex
life, or pressures for sexual favors.

## Non-Verbal

Gestures, staring, touching, hugging, patting, blocking a person’s
movement, standing too close, brushing against a person’s body, or
display of sexually suggestive or degrading pictures, racist or other
derogatory cartoons or drawings.

## Grievance Procedure

Any member who believes he or she is being harassed, or any member who
becomes aware of harassment should promptly notify an authority figure
appropriate for the medium that the harassment occurred in.

For example, at a conference, a conference organizer should
immediately be made aware, or a meeting organizer at a LOPSA Local. If
the authority figure is the harasser, or the member feels
uncomfortable discussing the situation with them, then the LOPSA Board
of Directors should be contacted at board@lopsa.org.

Upon notification of a harassment complaint, a confidential and
impartial investigation will be promptly commenced and will include
direct interviews with involved parties and where necessary, with
members who may be witnesses or have knowledge of matters relating to
the complaint. The parties of the complaint will be notified of the
findings and their options.

## Non-retaliation

This policy also expressly prohibits retaliation of any kind against
any member bringing a complaint or assisting in the investigation of a
complaint. Such members may not be adversely affected in any manner
related to their membership.

## Disciplinary Action

LOPSA views harassment and retaliation to be among the most serious
breaches of professional behavior. Consequently, appropriate
disciplinary or corrective action, ranging from a warning to a
revocation of membership and a ban from LOPSA-organized activities
both online and in person, can be expected.
