# <Your Chapter Name>

# LOPSA Chapter By-Laws

## Article 1. Name

The name of this local chapter of the League of Professional System
Administrators (LOPSA) shall be <Your Chapter Name>, herein referred
to as the "Chapter".

## Article 2. Purpose

The Chapter will serve as a local presence for LOPSA, and will carry
on the goals and programs of LOPSA at the local level.

This chapter is dedicated furthering the purposes of the international
LOPSA organization, through providing a local community for system
administrators in the <your geographical region> area.

These purposes will be accomplished through the education,
development, and recognition of system administrators, as well as
contribution to and/or promotion of industry standards and education,
and published media.

<Insert any specific goals you have for your chapter here>

## Article 3. Membership

Membership is open to anyone interested in the practice of System
Administration and who agrees to abide by the requirements of these
By-Laws.

Membership in the Chapter is <price of membership or "free">. Any such
dues will be paid annually to the Secretary-Treasurer.

Membership in LOPSA is strongly encouraged, but <is not|is> required.

In order to retain the <Your Chapter Name> charter from the
international LOPSA organization, at least six (6) members of the
Chapter must be LOPSA members in good standing.

## Article 4. Officers

The Officers of the Chapter shall be: (a) the President, (b) the
Vice-President, (c) the Secretary-Treasurer. These Officers shall
perform those duties prescribed by these By-Laws and must be members
of LOPSA in good standing. These Officers will comprise the Executive
Committee. All officers are elected for a term of one (1) year, and
may be re-elected.

The Officers’ duties are as follows:

### (a) The President

The President shall preside over all general meetings and
Executive Committee meetings, enforce the By-Laws of this Chapter,
report to the President of LOPSA (or to the liaison assigned to the
Chapter by the LOPSA Board of Directors), and have general supervision
over the affairs of this Chapter.

### (b) The Vice-President

The Vice-President shall perform all duties of the President in the
President’s absence, and assume the office of President, should that
office become vacant. The Vice-President is to send regular monthly
reports on the chapter status to the LOPSA Board of Directors (or to
the liaison assigned to the Chapter) as well as to the individual in
LOPSA responsible for the creation of the newsletter.

### (c) The Secretary-Treasurer

The Secretary-Treasurer shall ensure that all financial books and
records of the Chapter are maintained and report the status of such at
each meeting, ensure all debts against the Chapter are paid in a
timely manner, record meetings of minutes, and keep a roll of members.

## Article 5. Elections

Elections of the Officers shall be conducted during the regularly
scheduled <May or your preferred month> meeting, and the officers will
serve from <June> until the following <May>.

Nominations will be presented to the membership of the Chapter during
<April>. A member may nominate him or herself.

All Chapter members in good standing are eligible to vote. A general
meeting quorum is <10> members or one-half the membership, whichever
is fewer.  Members must be present to vote.

In the event that the Vice-President or Secretary-Treasurer is unable
to maintain his or her position for the extent of their term, the
Executive Committee shall appoint an eligible member to serve in that
position for the remainder of the term.

The maximum number of sequential terms allowed is <2 (or possibly,
"There are no term limits)>.

## Article 6. Removal of an Officer

Any officer may be removed by a referendum. The referendum must be
presented to the Executive Committee in writing or through e-mail.
The Executive Committee will notify the membership of the Chapter of
the referendum. The referendum will be considered during the first
regular or special meeting at which a quorum is present and which is
at least 10 days following the notification.

A simple majority vote (at least 51%) is required to remove an
Officer. An Officer so removed shall not be eligible to fill any
vacancy on the Executive Committee during the remainder of the current
term, but shall be eligible to be nominated for future Officer
positions.

## Article 7. Meetings

This Chapter shall meet monthly at a place and time determined by the
Executive Committee. Special meetings may be called by majority vote
of the Executive Committee, so long as the membership of the Chapter
is notified at least 10 days prior to the proposed special meeting.

All meeting minutes will be available on the chapter website within a
reasonable time after a meeting. Meeting minutes will include details
on the next chapter meeting. These details will include (but are not
limited to): date, time, location, and purpose of the next meeting.

## Article 8. Committees

The Executive Committee may form various committees for the purposes
of encouraging and organizing the varied activities of the
Chapter. Each committee leader shall keep regular records of its
proceedings and report the same to the Chapter at regular meetings.

## Article 9. Amendments to By-Laws

Any member of the Chapter who is also a member of LOPSA may propose
amendments to these By-Laws. Amendments must be presented to the
Executive Committee in writing or through email. The Executive
Committee will notify the membership of the chapter of the proposed
amendment, and the amendment will be considered during the first
regular or special meeting at which a quorum is present and which is
at least 10 days following the notification.

The adoption of a proposed amendment shall require the affirmative
vote of at least two-thirds of all voting members.

## Article 10. Dissolution

If the Chapter should become dissolved, no part of the funds or
property shall be distributed to or among the members.

After payment of all indebtedness of the Chapter, its surplus and
properties will be forfeited to LOPSA via the LOPSA
Treasurer-Secretary.

