# LOPSA Locals Chapter Guide

## Introduction

Thank you for your interest in starting a LOPSA Local chapter!

Our organization thrives because of people like you. The international
association known as LOPSA consists of hundreds of individuals, and
there is no better way to carry out our goal of improving the
profession of system administration than by providing a community of
people who are interested in the same thing. On behalf of the Board of
Directors and the membership of LOPSA, I thank you for helping us to
build this community.

In this document, you will find a guide to starting and running a
chapter, written and contributed to by the people who have done
exactly this before. The information contained herein will help you
get your feet on the ground, find like-minded people, band together
with them, and get meetings running in your area. Before you know it,
you’ll be in the midst of a new local community of system
administrators!

LOPSA is a volunteer organization run by IT administrators, and just
like with system administration, as we learn, we improve things, and
this chapter guide is no different. As you learn how to build and run
your own chapter, you may have suggestions for changes or additions to
this booklet. We want to hear them.

During your journey, if you have suggestions, comments, or questions,
please email them to locals@lopsa.org and we’ll work hard to give you
the resources that you need to be successful in starting your
chapter. LOPSA is dedicated to making the Locals program a success,
and that means making sure that you’re successful.

## What is LOPSA?

LOPSA is the League of Professional System
Administrators. We began as a Special Interest Group (SIG) of USENIX,
the Advanced Computing Systems Association. Near the end of 2007, we
formally separated into our own independent organization, although we
still enjoy an excellent working relationship with USENIX.

LOPSA is dedicated to the furtherance of all aspects of system
administration as a profession, and all of our programs are dedicated
to this cause. Our efforts are designed to encourage system
administrators to improve themselves and to increase their
professionalism, and we strive to advocate for administrators every
chance we get.

We are registered with the United States Internal Revenue Service as a
501c(3) non-profit organization. Your membership fees go toward
supporting the various projects and partnerships that LOPSA
maintains. Activities such as the Locals program and the Mentorship
project materially improve the state of system administration for
everyone, not just members of LOPSA.  By being a part of our
organization, you’re actively helping us do this, and we thank you for
it.

As mentioned above, LOPSA is run and organized by a volunteer army of
IT administrators from around the world. At last count, we had members
in 43 countries from around the world. We are actively recruiting new
members across the globe, and we’re working to start local chapters in
many other countries, as well.

## The LOPSA Locals Program

Although our modern digital lifestyle allows
us to have a virtual presence anywhere in the world, people are still
very attracted to the idea of taking part in a community in their
area. Having a local resource or support network is invaluable to
being a better administrator.

To help facilitate building a real network of system administrators,
LOPSA has developed the “Locals” program that encourages and promotes
the formation of local LOPSA chapters. These chapters hold regular
meetings and become involved in their community, often working with
local businesses and charitable causes.

This local presence allows LOPSA to have an outreach program that
provides supportive resources to administrators, and at the same time
increase the number of LOPSA members who get something out of their
membership.

## Kinds of LOPSA Local chapters

There are three types of LOPSA chapters -- – regular, student, and
affiliate. Each carries our mission of professionalism into the
community, but there are differences in the structure and composition
of the groups.

* Regular Chapter

A regular chapter is a local presence, and is an officially sanctioned
part of LOPSA. Regular chapters carry on the goals and programs of
LOPSA on a local level. Because Regular Chapters are a part of LOPSA,
they are bound by the Regular Chapter Rules. Its paid members are
LOPSA members, and its elected officers are covered by LOPSA’s
insurance. A Regular Chapter must have at least six paid members,
although a new chapter will be granted provisional status for its
first year with three paid members.

* Student Chapter

A student chapter is a local presence at an educational institution
and part of LOPSA. Student Chapters carry on the goals and programs of
LOPSA at a local level with an emphasis on education. Because Student
Chapters are part of LOPSA, they are bound by the Student Chapter
Rules. Its paid members are LOPSA Student members, and its elected
officers and Student Chapter Advisor(s) are covered by LOPSA's
insurance. In addition, Student Chapters must follow the institution's
rules for student organizations. A Chapter must have at least six paid
members and one paid standard member as a Student Chapter
Advisor. Provisional status can be granted with three paid student
members (plus the Advisor) for the first year.

* Affiliate Chapter

LOPSA affiliates are independent local groups that share similar goals
with the LOPSA organization and in some way serve the system
administration community and our members in their area. Affiliate
chapters are NOT part of LOPSA and will receive support from LOPSA
primarily to assist them in providing services to our members and the
community.

You should have the type of chapter you want to start in mind, but
when in doubt, we encourage you to start a regular chapter. Obtaining
three paid LOPSA members is easier than it sounds. If you don’t know
any other local members, contact locals@lopsa.org and we will work to
get you in touch with other LOPSA members in your area.

## Starting a Chapter

Deciding to start a new LOPSA chapter isn’t something that
should be taken lightly, but it isn’t as daunting as it might seem. A
lot of system administrators feel like they couldn’t possibly lead a
group of other admins, but this isn’t something to worry
about. Instead of looking at yourself as a leader of admins, try to
see your goal as being a coordinator or organize, because really, a
LOPSA chapter organizer’s job is to...well...organize.

The most important part of being a chapter organizer is finding
speakers, finding attendees, and finding a place to meet. These kinds
of organizational activities are well within your skillset, and if you
have problems with anything, we’re here to help.

## Evaluating a potential city

Chances are good that you’re interested in starting a chapter in the
town that you live in. There probably won’t be a problem with
that. After all, the most important aspect of getting a chapter going
isn’t how many potential administrators there are to attend meetings,
but how many potential organizers there are who want to put in the
work to make the chapter a reality.

Generally speaking, we’ve found that it isn’t necessarily the biggest
cities that have active LOPSA chapters, but the ones with organizers
who are devoted to making the chapter work, and who have a significant
population within a half hour drive of the meeting location.

If you live in or near a population center where 100,000 people live
within a half hour of travel distance, then you definitely have the
makings of a potential LOPSA chapter. Is there a college or university
with a well-established IT program? That might be the basis of a great
student chapter!

It’s important to be creative and see the potential in the world
around you. Figuring out how to make a chapter a reality is just the
first step on a journey that long, but very rewarding.

## Weighing the time requirements

Of the requirements listed above, the
dedicated organizer is the hardest one to find. There are major cities
in North America that would be natural fits for LOPSA chapters, but at
this time, many don’t have one, only because no one has stepped
forward to offer to do the work.

The reason for this may be that people perceive the amount of time
required as being much higher than it really is.

It’s completely possible to have regularly scheduled meetings by
planning for an hour a week (and less, if you have other people
helping you). Everyone can organize a LOPSA chapter, so if this is
something you want to do, then you shouldn’t be afraid of the time
commitment, because it’s not as bad as you think.

## Obtaining co-organizers

As mentioned before, even the modest time requirements go down when
the load is spread across several people. Getting volunteers to work
on a small part of the process is usually easier than convincing
someone to do the whole thing themselves.

When discussing the chapter with potential attendees, always have a
list of small responsibilities that you can offer to interested people
--  a lot of people will take you up on the offer to help in some
small way that will make your life easier. Always remember to mention
these people when you’re given credit for the success of the chapter.
Finding potential members System administrators have a wide range of
interests; there’s no one place to go where you can contact all of
your potential attendees. That being said, the best way to spread
knowledge of your new chapter is by word of mouth, but to do that, you
need an initial group of people to do the talking. That’s where LOPSA
can help.

Contact locals@lopsa.org and express your interest in starting a
chapter. You’ll receive a contact on the LOPSA Board of Directors who
will help shepherd you through the process. One of the steps is
setting up a mailing list on the LOPSA server that will give your
potential members a forum to talk and discuss.

The best initial source of potential members is the lopsa-discuss
list. This non-technical mailing list has the most highest
subscription count of all LOPSA lists, and almost certainly has people
in your area subscribed. Submitting a message to this list is easy and
will reach a lot folks who will be interested in helping your chapter
get off the ground.

Other sources can be found throughout the Internet wherever
administrators congregate. One of the popular system administrator
hangouts is on Reddit, at /r/sysadmin. This forum has thousands of
system administrators visit it daily, and announcing the formation of
a new LOPSA chapter in a certain city will definitely see a lot of
eyes.

Social media is a powerful tool that can be used to spread word of new
events. Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn and so on. Posting with the
hashtag #sysadmin gathers a lot of interest, and asking someone very
occasionally to retweet in order to help spread a message isn’t
usually looked down upon, so long as the message is on target and for
the right reasons. Also watch for geographic-specific groups to join
and take part in.

I’ve found that in some communities, Craigslist is an excellent source
of potential members. There is usually an “events calendar” specific
to the area that you want to meet in, so make sure to check this out.

Interestingly, the communities that spring up around meeting
announcement sites can yield a vast supply of potential
attendees. MeetUp has millions of users, and whenever a new event is
scheduled, people in the area interested in those topics receive a
notice. Don’t forget to take advantage of this.

Also check to see what local forums are devoted to the city where you
want to start your chapter – technical-types hang out on these as
well, and your post will probably not be treated as noise.

There have been multiple chapters started by system administrators
that came together to celebrate “System Administrator Appreciation
Day”, which falls on the last Friday in July. These celebrations took
place in a local pub or restaurant, and attendees had the option of
signing up for notification on the soon-to-be forming LOPSA
chapter. The attendees at the parties were found using the above
methods.

Lastly, there’s good old legwork. Lots of community coffee shops,
libraries, and grocery stores have bulletin boards and will allow you
to post a flyer. Put “sysadmin” in big letters at the top to catch the
eye of anyone who would recognize that word. Make sure the flyer
contains the URL to your webpage (and maybe add a QR code which points
there).

As you probably know, the crowd on Internet forums is not necessarily
polite, so make sure to lurk and get a feel for how the inhabitants
respond.  Follow the posting rules, and be polite and professional,
because as an organizer, you are representing LOPSA with your post.

Using these techniques will help get you on your way, but don’t forget
that the best method to spread knowledge of your chapter is word of
mouth, so encourage everyone who comes to meetings and joins the
mailing list to tell their friends and coworkers.

## Structure of Your Chapter

LOPSA Locals chapter guidelines mention that elected Chapter Officers,
but it dictates no enforced structure. There is an included Sample
Chapter By-Laws included in this package and on the lopsa.org website,
but it is only a suggestion. Chapter by-laws are only necessary if the
chapter maintains assets over a value of $500; there’s no need to
enforce unnecessary structure.

Eventually, it may be necessary or advantageous to elect officers and
hold meetings in a more regimented way. When that time comes, the
sample By-Laws can serve as the foundation for your chapter, or you
may write your own, so long as they comply with the government’s
requirement for nonprofit status.

## Getting a meeting place

Meetings have to be held somewhere, but the
difference between a good meeting place and a bad one can be dramatic,
and can materially affect the number of people who come.  Good meeting
places generally have a few qualities:

* Ease of commuting

No one wants to drive to a place that’s hard to get to. Likewise, in
big cities, if your meeting spot has no mass transit nearby, that’s
going to make it hard for people to get to and from the meeting.

* Available Seating

Most of the LOPSA meetings I’ve been to have somewhere between one and
two dozen people. For an average office, that’s actually fairly hard
to find extra seating for, even in a large conference room.

* Internet Access

System Administrators like (and in many cases need) access to the
Internet. This is less of a problem now with the widely available
cellular APs, but decent wireless access is always appreciated.

* Presentation facilities

Many speakers at meetings want to show slideshows or demonstrate
technology. Rather than having a dozen people huddled around a laptop,
it’s far better to have a projector and screen (even if you have to
bring it yourself, if that’s an option)

* Proximity to restaurants

Most of the meetings I’ve been to have an “after party” of sorts,
where attendees with free time will grab a bite to eat and a drink. It
helps if this is relatively close to the meeting spot, but it
certainly isn’t a make or break condition.

None of these are really necessary, but they are nice to have. I’ve
attended a lot of meetings where the only condition met was “Available
Seating”, and plenty of people still showed up. In the end, it’s all
about finding a location and then actually having the meeting.

So when taking the above into consideration, what types of facilities
should we look at, and what should we avoid?

Here are some good possibilities:

* Libraries
* Offices of members
* Community centers
* Sponsor’s facilities
* Classroom

All of these solutions have something in common: they’re free, they
usually have decent parking, and they’re used to having groups of
people come in and meet.

When using the facilities of a sponsor or a member’s office, make sure
to pre-arrange any security information that’s needed. In some cases,
building security must be notified of all guests attending the
meeting, so a registration service like EventBrite or MeetUp should be
used so you can give the list to the guards.

There are some bad solutions, though:

* Hotel
* Convention center
* Member’s house
* Server room

Hotels and convention centers usually charge excessive rates for
meeting spaces. Having a meeting in a member’s house means inviting a
dozen or more strangers over, plus very few people have the kind of
room to house a professional meeting. Meeting in a server room is a
bad idea because it’s cold, loud, and you’re surrounded by expensive
servers that aren’t yours.

There is no rule that says a LOPSA Local chapter has to meet in the
same place all the time, although most do. Finding a new spot every
month is tiresome and means extra work for the organizer. I’ve found
that sticking to the same spot, but having occasional "field trips" is
a good way to keep people returning while staying interesting.

There’s no general rule about where you can and can’t meet, but
remember that while you’re meeting, you are representing LOPSA and
your profession, so use your judgment and common sense about what is
and isn’t an appropriate place.

## Speakers and Meeting Topics

Good meetings require good topics.

Not every topic needs to be amazing, and you don’t need a famous
speaker to have a great meeting. Good topics and good speakers go a
long way toward making a monthly meeting into an event that draws a
crowd.

The two main ways to plan the topic for a meeting are to either
determine the topic, then try to find a speaker who can present an
hour and a half or two hours on that topic, or to have schedule a good
speaker and set the meeting topic to whatever they can or want to talk
about.

There’s nothing inherently wrong with either, though they both have
difficulties. If you set a meeting topic but can’t find a speaker,
then there are issues. Likewise if you have a speaker who is otherwise
amazing, but doesn’t have anything relevant to discuss.

Another option is that of a roundtable discussion. If there are
current events happening that people want to discuss, a topical
roundtable might be just what the doctor ordered. As a bonus, you can
record the audio and publish it as a group podcast.

If you find yourself stuck for speakers, contact locals@lopsa.org and
we will do what we can to find an appropriate speaker in your area. We
can’t guarantee anything, of course, but we’ll work with you to make
something happen.

# Obtaining Sponsors

There is absolutely no need to get sponsors for your LOPSA chapter –
-- many chapters have run and survived for years without them, but
having sponsors does make a few things easier.

First, it’s really nice to offer refreshments at meetings. Paying for
these yourself and/or passing the basket works, but you don’t want to
make a habit of it. Having a sponsor take care of refreshments
relieves you of the financial bourdon, and costs you only whatever you
negotiate -- in many cases, a brief mention at the beginning of the
chapter meeting, or maybe a sign next to the pizza boxes.

The best potential sponsors for a LOPSA chapter are those companies
that provide services that are of interest to system
administrators. In some cases, local co-location facilities or
electronics stores may be interested, but you don’t get a lot of
interest locally, don’t forget that there are a lot of potential
businesses on the Internet, as well.

If you solicit a local establishment for sponsorship, make sure to
wear business casual dress, and ask to speak to the manager on
duty. Introduce yourself and explain your purpose while handing the
manager a glossy pamphlet, such as the one included in the Local
Chapter Startup Kit. Make sure to politely answer any questions that
they have, and if you find yourself unable to, offer to refer them to
the member of the Board of Directors who is shepherding your chapter’s
startup. Respect any signs prohibiting solicitation (and call
instead).

When reaching out to an online company, direct your inquiries to the
marketing department (most companies list their marketing department
contact information on their webpage somewhere). Again, introduce
yourself as a representative of the <your city> chapter of LOPSA, the
professional association for system administrators. Explain that you
are seeking sponsors for refreshments during meetings (or whatever it
is that you are seeking sponsorship for).

Presumably, the company will offer to either pay for the refreshments
directly, reimburse you for the refreshments, or offer to cut the
chapter a check for a certain amount. While all of those will work,
the last one requires a bit more work from you, as you need to have a
bank account to deposit the check into.

A local chapter is permitted to have a checking account and to keep
money in it for the furthering of its goals, but if the amount reaches
$500, then the chapter does need by-laws, as explained above.

## Running a Chapter

Now that your chapter has members, a structure, a meeting place,
speakers, and possibly a sponsor or two, we need to get down to the
business of operating it and keeping people returning. Running the
meeting doesn’t need to be a big production (in fact, most people
generally prefer simple over elaborate), but it does need to be
interesting.  The format of your meetings Most Local LOPSA meetings
begin at around 6pm and run through 9pm. Depending on your locale, the
starting time of the meeting may need to shift later. Particularly in
metropolitan areas, a staring time of 6:30 or 7pm isn’t unheard
of. Here’s a typical meeting schedule:

		5:30pm Organizers & refreshments arrive 6:00pm
		Informal mingling and meet & greet w/ speaker 6:30pm
		Meeting opens with greeting and chapter business
		6:45pm Speaker is introduced 7:45pm Questions 8:00pm
		Organizer thanks speaker, informal mingling / clean up
		8:30pm Everyone goes home or adjourns to a local
		hangout

Included with this guide should be a checklist that can be printed out
to assist the organizer to remember what happens when. It is also
useful for the chapter secretary when recording minutes.  Your First
Meeting The first meeting of a chapter is a little different. The most
important difference is that almost no one at the meeting will be
familiar with LOPSA. This is their introduction to our organization,
so it behooves the organizer to talk a bit about the organization and
its goals. If you need advice, the best person to speak to would be
the Board of Directors member assigned to help your chapter begin.

When it comes to finding a topic and speaker for the first meeting, it
helps to start very strong. Look for someone who is well-known in the
community and can talk about something general enough that it will
attract administrators across the board, but still be interesting.
Retaining members The easiest way to retain members is to get people
involved. It’s a simple psychological strategy – get someone to invest
enough time in something and they mentally assign it a higher value
than they would otherwise. For this reason, all of your chapter
members should at least be approached personally to see if they want
to contribute to some aspect of running the chapter, whether it’s
finding new sponsors, speakers, or whatever.

The other way to retain members is harder, but just as rewarding, and
that’s to continually provide a quality experience for people
attending your meetings. This means constantly improving the
meeting. Don’t be content with a decent meeting – improve it until
it’s “good”, then shoot for great. Use the help that your fellow
chapter members offer, even if it’s just good advice.

Don’t worry about failing if you try new things.  Worry about failing
to try new things.
